README.md, before:

## About Me

Hi, I'm Matthieu, an **AI/ML Enginerd** who scales infrastructure to deploy models, and develops models to scale infrastructure. I lead teams through MLOps pipelines while going from localhost:8000 to production. From data acquisition and deep learning model development to production deployment and infra scaling, I turn coffee into releases — because someone has to keep the api rolling.

I graduated from **École Polytechnique** and **ENSAE Paris Tech** with specialized focus in Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing, and autonomous agent architectures.

## Current Endeavours & Projects

- 🚀 **Technical Lead** - [beta.laive.ai](https://beta.laive.ai): Architecting and leading development of a scalable retrieval platform for production AI agent deployment, managing full production infrastructure and a team of 5 ML Engineers & Researchers. Startup [incubated at P58](https://www.platform58.labanquepostale.fr/startups.html), Paris 15.
- 🔬 **Research Contributor** - Co-authoring research paper under review for ICML 2026, contributing a new methodology for large datasets auto-augmentation
- 🎯 **Focus Areas**: MLOps, distributed systems, AI agent orchestration and deployment, ML models implementation and distribution

## Achievements & Recognition

**2025**
- **IMC Trading International Challenge** - Led Polytechnique team to **top 1%** global ranking (12,000+ teams)

**2024**
- **Louis-Édouard Rivot Medal** - Best Computer Science Research Internship (Polytechnique), awarded at *Académie des sciences - Institut de France* 
- **ICAIF 2024** - Crypto Market Simulation for Risk Estimation (built synthetic data generation systems for financial extreme scenarios simulation)
- **MistralAI/HuggingFace × EntrepreneurFirst Hackathon** - **4th place** building a complete and optimized LLM web scraper for any-to-any api endpoint generation. Automatic web exploration, mapping and request retro-engineering.
- **Digital Services (h)Acked Brussels** - Implemented RAG-like systems for public-domain API documentation automation

## Technical Expertise

**ML/AI engineering**: PyTorch advocate with [WeightAndBiases](https://wandb.ai/site)/[MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) for training, [Langchain](https://www.langchain.com/) & [LangGraph](https://www.langchain.com/langgraph) for agentic development/orchestration + [Langsmith](https://www.langchain.com/langsmith) for simple observability. [LlamaIndex](https://www.llamaindex.ai/) and [LlamaParse](https://www.llamaindex.ai/llamaparse) for out-of-the box RAG, [QDrant](https://qdrant.tech/) + [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) + [Redis](https://redis.io/) for complete semantic & agentic database system 

**DevOps & Infrastructure**: [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) - CI/CD with github/gitlab ( + [Dokploy](https://dokploy.com/fr) enthousiast) - AWS, OVH, GCP, Azure ML - [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) , [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [PgAdmin4](https://www.pgadmin.org/)/[Adminer](https://www.adminer.org/en/) for monitoring.

## Let's Connect

- 📧 **Email**: mattolek@proton.me
- 🌐 **Portfolio**: [www.matthieu-olekhnovitch.fr](https://www.matthieu-olekhnovitch.fr)
- 💼 **Open to**: ML Engineering, AI Team Lead, and DevOps opportunities

Commit message:

Add section for open-source projects
Added a section for promising open-source projects I follow.

README.md, after:

## About Me

Hi, I'm Matthieu, an **AI/ML Enginerd** who scales infrastructure to deploy models, and develops models to scale infrastructure. I lead teams through MLOps pipelines while going from localhost:8000 to production. From data acquisition and deep learning model development to production deployment and infra scaling, I turn coffee into releases — because someone has to keep the api rolling.

I graduated from **École Polytechnique** and **ENSAE Paris Tech** with specialized focus in Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing, and autonomous agent architectures.

## Current Endeavours & Projects

- 🚀 **Technical Lead** - [beta.laive.ai](https://beta.laive.ai): Architecting and leading development of a scalable retrieval platform for production AI agent deployment, managing full production infrastructure and a team of 5 ML Engineers & Researchers. Startup [incubated at P58](https://www.platform58.labanquepostale.fr/startups.html), Paris 15.
- 🔬 **Research Contributor** - Co-authoring research paper under review for ICML 2026, contributing a new methodology for large datasets auto-augmentation
- 🎯 **Focus Areas**: MLOps, distributed systems, AI agent orchestration and deployment, ML models implementation and distribution

## Achievements & Recognition

**2025**
- **IMC Trading International Challenge** - Led Polytechnique team to **top 1%** global ranking (12,000+ teams)

**2024**
- **Louis-Édouard Rivot Medal** - Best Computer Science Research Internship (Polytechnique), awarded at *Académie des sciences - Institut de France* 
- **ICAIF 2024** - Crypto Market Simulation for Risk Estimation (built synthetic data generation systems for financial extreme scenarios simulation)
- **MistralAI/HuggingFace × EntrepreneurFirst Hackathon** - **4th place** building a complete and optimized LLM web scraper for any-to-any api endpoint generation. Automatic web exploration, mapping and request retro-engineering.
- **Digital Services (h)Acked Brussels** - Implemented RAG-like systems for public-domain API documentation automation

## Technical Expertise

**ML/AI engineering**: PyTorch advocate with [WeightAndBiases](https://wandb.ai/site)/[MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) for training, [Langchain](https://www.langchain.com/) & [LangGraph](https://www.langchain.com/langgraph) for agentic development/orchestration + [Langsmith](https://www.langchain.com/langsmith) for simple observability. [LlamaIndex](https://www.llamaindex.ai/) and [LlamaParse](https://www.llamaindex.ai/llamaparse) for out-of-the box RAG, [QDrant](https://qdrant.tech/) + [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) + [Redis](https://redis.io/) for complete semantic & agentic database system 

**DevOps & Infrastructure**: [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) - CI/CD with github/gitlab ( + [Dokploy](https://dokploy.com/fr) enthousiast) - AWS, OVH, GCP, Azure ML - [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) , [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [PgAdmin4](https://www.pgadmin.org/)/[Adminer](https://www.adminer.org/en/) for monitoring.

## Promising Open-Source Projects I Follow
- [LangFlow](https://www.langflow.org/): A cool all-in-one open-source tool for prototyping AI/RAG applications
- [Dokploy](https://dokploy.com/fr) : An open-source alternative to vercel/Netlify for automatic deployment, previews and VPS cluster management.
- [GoatCounter](https://www.goatcounter.com/): A simple straightforward open-source web analytics tool for small projects

## Let's Connect

- 📧 **Email**: mattolek@proton.me
- 🌐 **Portfolio**: [www.matthieu-olekhnovitch.fr](https://www.matthieu-olekhnovitch.fr)
- 💼 **Open to**: ML Engineering, AI Team Lead, and DevOps opportunities
